
  This directory contains "gema", the general-purpose macro processor.
  The sub-directories are:

     src        source program (in ANSI C)
     doc        documentation, including Unix "man" page and user manual.
     examples   sample applications, including LaTeX to HTML conversion.
     test       script and data for verification of build

  The program is designed to work on either Unix or MS-DOS. It may need
  some modification for use on other systems, particular in regard to
  pathname syntax; see the places where ``#ifdef MSDOS'' is used.

  To build the program, you just need to use an ANSI C compiler to compile
  all of the ".c" files and link the resulting object files together.
  An example "Makefile" for Unix is provided.  Normally you should compile
  with optimization and with the option "-DNDEBUG".  So far, this has been
  successfully built with compilers from the following vendors:  Microsoft,
  Borland, Sun, Gnu, and Lucid.

  After building the program, you can verify that it works correctly by
  running the test script in the "test" directory -- "test" for Unix, or
  "test.bat" for MS-DOS.  The test passes if no file comparison differences
  are reported.

  The "examples" directory includes the following non-trivial pattern files
  for document conversion:

      latex.dat      convert LaTeX to HTML
      man-html.dat   convert "man" page from "nroff" to HTML
      ht.dat         convert HTML to LaTeX
      tex.dat        used with "latex.dat" for low-level TeX features

  The script "latex.sh" can be used for LaTeX to HTML conversion after
  modifying it for the actual location of the files used.  It takes care of
  automatically running the program a second time when needed to resolve
  forward references. 

  These conversion pattern files are not complete; they have been
  sufficient for the documents I have been working with, but you may find
  additional features that you need.  The conversion provides a clear
  warning about what is not recognized, and extending the patterns is easy.


  "gema" is not a commercial product; it has been donated to the public
  domain in order to maximize its usefulness.  Let me know if you find any
  bugs, but I don't promise to fix them.  If you fix something or extend
  the program yourself, please send me your improvements.  Also send me
  e-mail if you would like to be informed of any future updates.


				David N. Gray

				e-mail:  DGray@acm.org

				850 Roble Ave., Apt. G
				Menlo Park, CA  94025

				March 21, 1995
